Welcome to Thoughts on the Market.

I'm Mike Wilson, Morgan Stanley CIO and Chief US Equity Strategist.

Today in the podcast, I'll be discussing my views on the new Fed Chair [music] and how to interpret his FOMC meeting last week.

It's Monday, June 22nd at 11:30 a.m. in New York.

So, let's get after it.

I want to spend today on what I think is one of the more important market events of the year so far.

Kevin Warsh's first Fed meeting as the Chair.

Specifically, he's trying to fortify credibility at a very delicate moment.

The economy is stronger than many expected, inflation is still running above target, and markets have become accustomed to central banks telling them exactly what to think.

Back in February when Warsh was nominated, I argued that this was the right choice if the goal was to lift market credibility.

At that time, precious metals were rising parabolically.

To me, that was a bad signal that markets were questioning whether policy makers could really run the economy hot without creating a disorderly move in the dollar or broader inflation problem.

Since Warsh's nomination, the S&P 500 to gold ratio is up close to 40%, and I view that as a powerful vote of confidence from the markets.

It suggests investors are giving Warsh the benefit of the doubt that he can shake up the Fed, reduce reliance on the balance sheet as a policy tool, and solidify discipline that gives the administration some breathing room.

But, here's the catch.

Enhancing credibility is not always painless.

In fact, credibility must be earned by doing something markets don't immediately like.

And last week had some of that flavor.

Stocks weakened, the yield curve bear flattened, dollar strengthened, and precious metals sold off.

From my perspective, that's not a failed first meeting.

That's a good and necessary first step.

What stood out to me most was Warsh's emphasis on the inflation mandate.

He made it very clear that the Fed's primary responsibility is price stability, not managing every wiggle in the labor market, not smoothing every risk asset drawdown, and not hand-holding investors through every data point.

And frankly, after 5 years of missing the inflation target, that message was overdue.

The stronger economy and improving private payroll data give the Fed room to lean into that message.

I don't think this means the Fed's about to hike rates immediately or even necessarily this year, but it does mean the reaction function has changed, and markets do not like uncertainty around the Fed path.

The other major shift was communication.

War should appears to be moving away from excessive forward guidance, and I think that's a very healthy development.

For years, I've argued that the Fed became too influential in shaping not only market behavior, but also how investors interpret the data.

When markets are only trying to guess what the Fed will say next, the Fed loses the value of market prices as an independent signal.

That's backwards.

Markets should be reacting to incoming information, and the Fed should be learning from those reactions, not vice versa.

A little less Fed hand-holding may be uncomfortable, but ironically, it's necessary to get to a more stable place.

Investors may not like it in the short term, but the system works better when market prices are less impeded by policy manipulation.

The wisdom of crowds is often better than the wisdom of committees.

The near-term risk for equities is not rate hikes or even uncertainty.

It's liquidity.

Balance sheet support is already starting to fade.

The reserve management program is down roughly 75% from its peak.

Treasury buybacks have been reduced by 50%, and at the same time, lending growth is accelerating because the real economy is using more capital.

That combination means liquidity is tightening, and our work suggests that that could remain a headwind for stocks into July.

Bottom line, the market may test Washington's resolve.

That's what markets do.

The key question is whether the Fed tolerates some short-term pain in order to strengthen longer-term credibility.

My guess is that it tries to do exactly that until funding markets, credit markets, or bond volatility forces its hand to add more liquidity and loosen financial conditions again.

That argues for choppy and even corrected price action in equity markets in the near term until the earnings-led bull market has its next leg higher.

Thanks for tuning in.

Hope you found it informative and useful.

Let us know what you think by leaving us a review.

And if you find "Thoughts on the Market" worthwhile, tell a friend or colleague to try it out. >> The preceding content is informational only and based on information available when created.

It is not an offer or solicitation, nor is it tax or legal advice.

It does not consider your financial circumstances and objectives and may not be suitable for you.
